# Simulation code for the manuscript:
## Public policy for management of forest pests within an ownership mosaic
### Andrew R. Tilman, Robert G. Haight
#### Abstract
The benefits of investments in sustainability are often public goods that accrue at broad scales and to many people. Urban forests exemplify this; trees supply ecosystem service benefits from local (in the case of shade) to global (in the case of carbon sequestration) scales. The complex mosaic of public and private ownership that typically defines an urban forest makes the public goods problem of investing in forest sustainability especially acute.  This results in incentives for private tree owners to invest in tree care that typically fall short of those of a public forest manager aiming for the social optimum. The management of a forest pest, such as emerald ash borer, provides a salient focus area because pests threaten the provision of public goods from urban forests and pest management generates feedback that alters pest spread and shapes future risks. We study how managers can design policies to address forest pest outbreaks and achieve uniform management across a mosaic of ownership types. We develop a game theoretic model to derive optimal subsidies for the treatment of forests pests and evaluate the efficacy of these policies in mitigating the spread of forest pests with a dynamic epidemiological model. Our results suggest that a combination of optimal treatment subsidies for privately owned trees and targeted treatment of public trees can be far more effective at reducing pest-induced tree mortality than either approach in isolation. While we focus on the management of urban forests, designing programs that align private and public incentives for investment in public goods could advance sustainability in a wide range of systems.
#### Uusage
Manuscript figures were generated using Python and TikZ. Figures 1-4 and Figure SI 1 can be generated from tikZ-figures.tex. Figures 5-8 and Figure SI 2 can be generated from their corrospondingly named .py files.  
